Interactive sessions on BluePebble for users from Maths (#22)
ACRC/HPC-community-docs: source/mathematics/interactive.md

---
title: "Interactive sessions"
---

These are instructions on getting quick interactive sessions on BluePebble, assuming you already have login to this cluster and a project code. As this is primarily aimed for the School of Mathematics, we'll refer to the project code to be in the form MATHXXXXXX, but this could be in other format.

The School of Mathematics ringfenced a few of its nodes with the software Magma installed on them into the "magma" partition, and we also use this partition for quick interactive testing.

:::{important}

> If you need to run something heavy that takes hours or days please remove any reference to the "magma" partition from the below.

Author: I slightly modified your suggestion by commenting on the potential need of the Magma software itself.

:::

We use maple/xmaple as an example but comsol, magma, math/mathematica, etc work similarly.

- **If you don't need a graphical interface:**
1. Connect to the login node, as described [here](https://www.acrc.bris.ac.uk/protected/hpc-docs/connecting/index.html). For this your don't need X11 forwarding.

> 2. Once you are on the login node, do

Reviewer: In multi-line list items in Markdown, subsequent lines should be indented to the same level as the first line, e.g.

````markdown
2. Once you are on the login node, do
   ```console
   $ srun --account=MATHXXXXXX --partition=magma --mem=1gb --time=00:01:00 --pty bash -i
   ```
   to get an interactive ...
````

If this is not done, then in the generated HTML, the list is ended by the de-indented text.

Could you fix the indentation here and in the rest of the document so that each line within a list item is indented to the same level?

```console

> $ srun --account=MATHXXXXXX --partition=magma --mem=1gb --time=00:01:00 --pty bash -i

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ srun --account=MATHXXXXXX --partition=magma --mem=1G --time=00:01:00 --pty bash -i
```

Memory units should be specified using a single character suffix (see [srun man page](https://slurm.schedmd.com/srun.html)), though "1gb" seems to work.

```

> to get an interactive session on one of our ringfenced nodes for quick interactive sessions. (No heavy jobs are allowed to be run on the login node, hence this command.) Notice that the above gives you a terminal for 1 minute, obviously change this to what time you need and save your work often as your terminal will be killed after the requested time.

Reviewer: Suggest some changes to wording to clarify the intended use of login nodes and the resources the command requests 

```suggestion
to get an interactive session on one of our ringfenced nodes for quick interactive sessions. Login nodes are intended for small scale interactive work. This command allows us to create an interactive session on a compute node for more intensive interactive work. Notice that the above gives you a terminal for 1 minute with 1 GB memory and the default number of CPU cores (1) -- please change this to specify the time and resources you need. Also, remember to save your work often as your terminal will be killed after the requested time.
```

> to get an interactive session on one of our ringfenced nodes for quick interactive sessions. (No heavy jobs are allowed to be run on the login node, hence this command.) Notice that the above gives you a terminal for 1 minute, obviously change this to what time you need and save your work often as your terminal will be killed after the requested time.

Reviewer: Could you add some example output to the terminal after running `srun`, e.g.

```console
srun: job 1234567 queued and waiting for resources
srun: job 1234567 has been allocated resources
```

It might also help to add some text stating that in some cases you may need to wait for a job to start (e.g. if not using the "magma" partition).

:::{tip}
Without `--partition=magma` you are in the general BluePebble pool with far more nodes but usually longer waiting times, but this is the place to submit longer, heavy computations rather than our "magma" partition.
:::
3. In the interactive session do
```console
$ module load apps/maple
```
(tab works for autocompletions). Then launch
```console
$ maple
```

> - **For graphical interface (GUI):**

Reviewer: Suggest using a level 2 heading rather than bold-face (using defined heading levels improves accessibility of websites, e.g. for screen readers).

```suggestion
## For graphical interface (GUI)
```

1. Connect to the login node, as described [here](https://www.acrc.bris.ac.uk/protected/hpc-docs/connecting/index.html) including the X11 bits.
2. Once on the login node, do
```console

> $ salloc --account=MATHXXXXXX --partition=magma --mem=1gb --time=00:01:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ salloc --account=MATHXXXXXX --partition=magma --mem=1G --time=00:01:00
```

Memory units should be specified using a single character suffix (see [srun man page](https://slurm.schedmd.com/srun.html)), though "1gb" seems to work.

```

> again adjust the time from 1 minute to what you need, and please remove `--partition=magma` if you have a heavy job to run for hours or days. This will say something like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
again adjust the command to request the time and resources to what you need, and please remove `--partition=magma` if you have a heavy job to run for hours or days. This will say something like
```

```console
salloc: Nodes bp1-compute169 are ready for job
```
3. Do
```console
$ ssh -X bp1-compute169
```

> (with whichever node was allocated to you in the previous step); tab completion works. Then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using whichever node was allocated to you in the previous step; tab completion works here too. Then
```
